# Inheritance

Inheritance can be defined as the process where one class acquires the properties of another. With the use of inheritance the information is made manageable in a hierarchical order.

## Why use inheritance?

- Code reusability. How? In base or super or parent class, we have variable and methods or we can say parent class has already implemented a specific feature. So when child class inherit from the parent class then the feature already implemented by the parent class or you can say the variables and methods in parent class is automatically available to the child class. No need to write the same feature again in child class.
- Organising commonalities: How? Putting common behavior in one place(parent class) and let it be shared with other classes(child classes).

## Types of inheritance

1. Single: When a single derived class is created from a single base class.
2. Hierarchical: When more than one derived class are created from a single base class.
3. Multi level: When a derived class is created from another derived class.
4. Multiple: When a derived class is created from more than one base class.

## Implementation of inheritance

- The concept is implemented in language by identifying relationship among classes. The main thing here is required to understand that the relationship establish through inheritance must be among same type of classes. Inheritance is for "is-a" relationship.
- The inheritance can be of any type such as single, multi-level, hierarchical or multiple and the type of inheritance that programmer can use depend upon the inheritance support provided in language. For example, PHP and Java do not support multiple inheritance.
- Irrespective of how programmer establish the relationship among classes with the help of type of inheritance available, we have two variants for implementing it in programming language which are Simple inheritance and Abstract inheritance.

## Interfaces are for supporting multiple inheritance

This is absolutely wrong idea because the idea behind inheritance is stand firmly on point and also the word meaning says the same that "acquire from parent'. If you are not getting anything pre-cooked from parent then there is no inheritance exists. So, Interface does not support any type of inheritance at all either single or multiple. Interface is for unrelated classes that are related somehow and most important to understand point is that the interface as top entity does not give nothing to class who is in a relation with it means nothing to acquire but the responsibility to implement pure contract.

Simple Inheritance                                                                                                                                                                                            | Abstract Inheritance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Interfaces
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For implementing pure inheritance.                                                                                                                                                                            | For implementing inheritance + abstraction process together.                                                                                                                                                                                               | For implementing pure abstraction process.Pure design by contract.
Classes must be related (same type).                                                                                                                                                                          | Classes must be related (same type).                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | For completely unrelated classes (Different type).
Must be a "Is-a" relation between classes.                                                                                                                                                                    | If abstract class provides common functionality then it should be a "Is-a" relation between classes.If no common functionality in parent abstract class then just go for Interfaces.                                                                       | Better suited to situations in which your application requires many possibly unrelated classes to work together to provide certain functionality.
Only one parent class or base class.                                                                                                                                                                          | Only one abstract parent class or abstract base class.Single line of contract.                                                                                                                                                                             | One or more interfaces. Multiple line of contract.
Use it when you want to put all common functionality in parent class and let the child classes inherit all parent's functionality plus write their own which make child classes a specialised form of parent. | Use it when you want to put all common functionality in parent class which will be inherited by child classes plus also mention the features (behavior) that parent class does not implement but ordered or forced child classes to implement as contract. | Use it when there is pure contract that concrete classes have to implement when it get related with interface.
Parent says, have my powers without any condition.                                                                                                                                                            | Parent says, have my powers but you have to fulfil my conditions too.                                                                                                                                                                                      | Interface says, you have to fulfil my conditions if you want to stay in relation with me but i do not have any powers to give you.
Parent class can be instantiated.                                                                                                                                                                             | Parent class cannot be instantiated.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Interface != Class
Achieved by: extends                                                                                                                                                                                          | Achieved by: extends and parent abstract class                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Achieved by: interface and implements
